nup84/restraints.md, before:

Restraints used in the Nup84 modeling
=====================================

All IMP restraints are C++ or Python subclasses of the `Restraint` base class.
All `Restraint`s have a user-defined name (if not specified, one is assigned
automatically, such as "PairRestraint 5").

`RestraintSet` class: a pseudo-restraint that acts as a container of other
`Restraint`s.

Each Nup84 component has a `RestraintSet` called "sortedsegments". This contains
a set of `PairRestraint`s, each of which connects one of the low resolution
beads to the next bead (by sequence).

`PairRestraint` class: inputs: particle 1, particle 2, and a `PairScore` to
score the interaction. In the Nup84 case we use a `PairScore` subclass called
`SphereDistancePairScore` which scores the distance between the surfaces of the
two beads. (Another commonly used class is `DistancePairScore` which scores the
distance between the centers.)

`SphereDistancePairScore` class: inputs: a `UnaryFunction` that converts the
distance into a score. For Nup84 we use `Harmonic` or `HarmonicUpperBound`, both
of which take as inputs a mean distance and a force constant.

Each Nup84 component also has a `RestraintSet` called "unmodeledregions".
This is currently empty, since we model everything at some resolution.

The next restraint is excluded volume, which is a `PairsRestraint`.

`PairsRestraint` class: inputs: a set of pairs of particles to act on
(in IMP we store these in a `Container` class) and the `PairScore` to apply
to each pair. For Nup84 we use a `ClosePairContainer` and a
`SphereDistancePairScore(HarmonicUpperBound)`.

`ClosePairContainer` class: contains all pairs of particles that are nearby in
space (i.e. a nonbonded list). inputs: distance cutoff, slack (controls how
frequently the list is rebuilt during the simulation), a `ClosePairFinder` to
populate the list, and a `Container` of all particles to operate on. For Nup84,
we use a `RigidClosePairsFinder` which handles rigid bodies, and a `Container`
that is a simple list of all 10-residue-per-bead particles.

Nup84 "barrier" restraint: a `SingletonsRestraint` that applies a function to
each particle. Performs similarly to `PairsRestraint`. In this case we use it
to prevent every particle in the simulation from drifting more than 300Å from
the origin (probably an implementation detail).

Next come the crosslinks. For each input dataset a number of `RestraintSet`s
are created to score them in a Bayesian fashion. For Nup84 there are two
such datasets, data/yeast_Nup84_DSS.new.dat and data/EDC_XL_122013.new.dat.

`RestraintSet` "prior_linear" is a list of `PairRestraint`s, one per crosslink.
Each is simply a `PairRestraint` that applies a `DistancePairScore` to the two
particles with a `Linear` `UnaryFunction` (this adds a small linear contribution
to the crosslink for long range).

`RestraintSet` "data" contains a `LogWrapper` `Restraint`, which simply
converts all of its child `Restraint` scores into log space. Those child
restraints are each `CrossLinkMSRestraint` objects, each of which takes as
input a crosslink length and an inner slope, plus one or more contributions
from particle pairs. Both the particle coordinates and the associated
Bayesian 'nuisance' parameters (sigma and psi) are optimized when we
build models.

`RestraintSet`s "prior_psi", "prior_sigmas" and "prior_length" contain simple
`Restraint`s that make sure the nuisance parameters don't go outside their
defined range (`UniformPrior`).

Finally, the EM2D restraint scores particles against one or more EM class
averages using a `PCAFitRestraint`. In the Nup84 case we score all atomic
resolution particles against the single class average in
data/nup84_kinked_from_class2.pgm.

`PCAFitRestraint` class: inputs: images file name, particles to fit against,
pixel size, image resolution, number of projections. The restraint acts
on the class averages (processed data). From the
documentation at https://github.com/salilab/pmi/blob/develop/pyext/src/restraints/em2d.py:

           @param representation The PMI model to fit
           @param images 2D class average filenames in PGM text format
                  (list of strings)
           @param pixel_size Pixel size in angstroms (float)
           @param image_resolution Estimated resolution of the images
                  in angstroms (float)
           @param projection_number Number of projections of the model
                  to generate and fit to images. The lower the number, the
                  faster the evaluation, but the lower the accuracy (int)
           @param resolution Which level of model representation to use
                  in the fit (float)
           @param n_components Number of the largest components to be
                  considered for the EM image (int)

To summarize, the restraints used for Nup84 are:

 - For each Nup84 component
   - `RestraintSet(name="sortedsegments")`
     - `PairRestraint(bead1, bead2,
                     SphereDistancePairScore(HarmonicUpperBound(
                                                  distance, force_constant)))`
     - [for each pair of beads in sequence]
   - `RestraintSet(name="unmodeledregions")` (empty)
 - `PairsRestraint(name="excluded_volume",
                   ClosePairContainer(distance_cutoff, slack,
                           RigidClosePairsFinder(), all_10_residue_particles))`
 - `SingletonsRestraint(name="barrier",
                        DistanceToSingletonScore(
                           HarmonicUpperBound(radius, force_constant), center),
                        all_particles)`
 - For each crosslinking dataset
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_data")`
     - `LogWrapper`
       - `CrossLinkMSRestraint(length, inner_slope, set of (p1, p2, sigma1, sigma2, psi))`
        - [for each crosslink]
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_linear")`
     - `PairRestraint(p1, p2, DistancePairScore(Linear(intercept, slope)))`
     - [for each crosslink]
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_length")`
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_sigmas")`
     - `UniformPrior(min_nuisance, max_nuisance)`
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_psi")`
     - `UniformPrior(min_nuisance, max_nuisance)`
     - `JeffreysRestraint()`
 - `PCAFitRestraint(images, all_atomic_particles, pixel_size, image_resolution,
                    number_of_projections, weight)`

Commit message:

Add link to EM restraint parameter docs.

nup84/restraints.md, after:

Restraints used in the Nup84 modeling
=====================================

All IMP restraints are C++ or Python subclasses of the `Restraint` base class.
All `Restraint`s have a user-defined name (if not specified, one is assigned
automatically, such as "PairRestraint 5").

`RestraintSet` class: a pseudo-restraint that acts as a container of other
`Restraint`s.

Each Nup84 component has a `RestraintSet` called "sortedsegments". This contains
a set of `PairRestraint`s, each of which connects one of the low resolution
beads to the next bead (by sequence).

`PairRestraint` class: inputs: particle 1, particle 2, and a `PairScore` to
score the interaction. In the Nup84 case we use a `PairScore` subclass called
`SphereDistancePairScore` which scores the distance between the surfaces of the
two beads. (Another commonly used class is `DistancePairScore` which scores the
distance between the centers.)

`SphereDistancePairScore` class: inputs: a `UnaryFunction` that converts the
distance into a score. For Nup84 we use `Harmonic` or `HarmonicUpperBound`, both
of which take as inputs a mean distance and a force constant.

Each Nup84 component also has a `RestraintSet` called "unmodeledregions".
This is currently empty, since we model everything at some resolution.

The next restraint is excluded volume, which is a `PairsRestraint`.

`PairsRestraint` class: inputs: a set of pairs of particles to act on
(in IMP we store these in a `Container` class) and the `PairScore` to apply
to each pair. For Nup84 we use a `ClosePairContainer` and a
`SphereDistancePairScore(HarmonicUpperBound)`.

`ClosePairContainer` class: contains all pairs of particles that are nearby in
space (i.e. a nonbonded list). inputs: distance cutoff, slack (controls how
frequently the list is rebuilt during the simulation), a `ClosePairFinder` to
populate the list, and a `Container` of all particles to operate on. For Nup84,
we use a `RigidClosePairsFinder` which handles rigid bodies, and a `Container`
that is a simple list of all 10-residue-per-bead particles.

Nup84 "barrier" restraint: a `SingletonsRestraint` that applies a function to
each particle. Performs similarly to `PairsRestraint`. In this case we use it
to prevent every particle in the simulation from drifting more than 300Å from
the origin (probably an implementation detail).

Next come the crosslinks. For each input dataset a number of `RestraintSet`s
are created to score them in a Bayesian fashion. For Nup84 there are two
such datasets, data/yeast_Nup84_DSS.new.dat and data/EDC_XL_122013.new.dat.

`RestraintSet` "prior_linear" is a list of `PairRestraint`s, one per crosslink.
Each is simply a `PairRestraint` that applies a `DistancePairScore` to the two
particles with a `Linear` `UnaryFunction` (this adds a small linear contribution
to the crosslink for long range).

`RestraintSet` "data" contains a `LogWrapper` `Restraint`, which simply
converts all of its child `Restraint` scores into log space. Those child
restraints are each `CrossLinkMSRestraint` objects, each of which takes as
input a crosslink length and an inner slope, plus one or more contributions
from particle pairs. Both the particle coordinates and the associated
Bayesian 'nuisance' parameters (sigma and psi) are optimized when we
build models.

`RestraintSet`s "prior_psi", "prior_sigmas" and "prior_length" contain simple
`Restraint`s that make sure the nuisance parameters don't go outside their
defined range (`UniformPrior`).

Finally, the EM2D restraint scores particles against one or more EM class
averages using a `PCAFitRestraint`. In the Nup84 case we score all atomic
resolution particles against the single class average in
data/nup84_kinked_from_class2.pgm.

`PCAFitRestraint` class: inputs: images file name, particles to fit against,
pixel size, image resolution, number of projections. The restraint acts
on the class averages (processed data). From the
documentation at https://github.com/salilab/pmi/blob/develop/pyext/src/restraints/em2d.py:

           @param representation The PMI model to fit
           @param images 2D class average filenames in PGM text format
                  (list of strings)
           @param pixel_size Pixel size in angstroms (float)
           @param image_resolution Estimated resolution of the images
                  in angstroms (float)
           @param projection_number Number of projections of the model
                  to generate and fit to images. The lower the number, the
                  faster the evaluation, but the lower the accuracy (int)
           @param resolution Which level of model representation to use
                  in the fit (float)
           @param n_components Number of the largest components to be
                  considered for the EM image (int)

(3DEM isn't used for Nup84, but for reference the parameters for that restraint
are documented at https://github.com/salilab/imp/blob/develop/modules/pmi/pyext/src/restraints/em.py)

To summarize, the restraints used for Nup84 are:

 - For each Nup84 component
   - `RestraintSet(name="sortedsegments")`
     - `PairRestraint(bead1, bead2,
                     SphereDistancePairScore(HarmonicUpperBound(
                                                  distance, force_constant)))`
     - [for each pair of beads in sequence]
   - `RestraintSet(name="unmodeledregions")` (empty)
 - `PairsRestraint(name="excluded_volume",
                   ClosePairContainer(distance_cutoff, slack,
                           RigidClosePairsFinder(), all_10_residue_particles))`
 - `SingletonsRestraint(name="barrier",
                        DistanceToSingletonScore(
                           HarmonicUpperBound(radius, force_constant), center),
                        all_particles)`
 - For each crosslinking dataset
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_data")`
     - `LogWrapper`
       - `CrossLinkMSRestraint(length, inner_slope, set of (p1, p2, sigma1, sigma2, psi))`
        - [for each crosslink]
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_linear")`
     - `PairRestraint(p1, p2, DistancePairScore(Linear(intercept, slope)))`
     - [for each crosslink]
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_length")`
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_sigmas")`
     - `UniformPrior(min_nuisance, max_nuisance)`
   - `RestraintSet(name="prior_psi")`
     - `UniformPrior(min_nuisance, max_nuisance)`
     - `JeffreysRestraint()`
 - `PCAFitRestraint(images, all_atomic_particles, pixel_size, image_resolution,
                    number_of_projections, weight)`
