deposition/imp/deposition.md, before:

# Deposition of IMP models

All published models should be listed on the
[IMP website](https://integrativemodeling.org/systems/). Some of these may
be suitable for deposition once issues (below) are resolved.

## [40S•eIF1•eIF3 Complex](https://salilab.org/40S-eIF1-eIF3)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.
 - The EM maps used in this study were not used as restraints, but only for
   assessment (see [figure S6](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4151992/figure/figs6/)).
 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Github (fasta sequences) and manual
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Supplementary figure S7
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks, 3DEM map used for validation only)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Supplementary methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values may come from IMP)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary material
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Publication, Figure 3 (used for validation only)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Figure S6, supplementary material
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Figure S6, supplementary material
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Supplementary material
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Github and supplementary figure S8
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [Exosome modeling](https://salilab.org/exosome)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Github (fasta sequences) & Manual
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Supplementary figure, S12 (may require raw data)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github 
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values from IMP)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary figure, S14 (may require raw data) and Github
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Github and methods section in the paper (clusters and cluster precisions)
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Figure 2 (i and j) in the paper (may require raw data)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [Nup84 Complex](https://salilab.org/nup84)

 - Need [localization density maps](https://github.com/integrativemodeling/nup84/issues/2).

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Github (fasta sequences) & Manual
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Supplementary figure S3 (may need raw data)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and 2DEM class averages, 3DEM map used for validation only)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Supplementary figure S3
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values from IMP)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary figure S4 (may need raw data)
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Negative stain 3DEM used for validation (Supplementary figure S8)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      Github
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        Cross-correlation coefficient available in the paper. 
                                                Transformation matrix not available
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Figure 4, methods section of paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Figure 4, methods section of paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Supplementary tables S4 & S5, Figure 4 in main paper
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Supplementary figures S6 & S7 (may need raw data)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [PDE6](https://salilab.org/pde6)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Methods section of paper (all atom models generated from coarse-grained models)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and 3DEM map)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Methods section of paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Tables 1, 2 & 3 in the paper (not available on Github)
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Tables 1, 2 & 3 (psi and sigma values missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   May be supplementary material Table 2 / not available
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Github (meta data??)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Methods section of paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Methods section of paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Not available
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Not available
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [PhoQ](https://salilab.org/phoq)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual 
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Methods section in paper
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Cysteine crosslinks)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Methods section and figure 1 in paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github (phoq/modeling/data/expcrosslink-full.dat, phoq/modeling/2Y20-MC-2-FULL-90-PERCENT-DATA-1/expcrosslink-90-percent.dat and others)
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values are missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Not available
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                From the paper
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Data-based clustering (raw data not available, refer to supplementary table S1)
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Github (what are .dx files?)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

 - Refer to supplementary methods for data-based clustering and multi-state modeling.

## [Mediator](https://salilab.org/mediator/)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual and Github (fasta sequences)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                From the paper
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and EM map)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              From the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github (in a format different from the usual)
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values not available)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Crosslinks maps available on Github (raw data required)
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Github and the paper (EM map has been segmented)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Github and the paper (clusters and cluster precisions)
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Github (in mrc and gmm formats)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and Manual (citation missing on Github)
 - Note: The readme file on Github has a lot of information on the files/data available. EM map has been segmented. 

## [Nup133](https://salilab.org/nup133)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

 - SAXS data needs to be submitted to SASBDB. All metadata and SAS-related definitions are captured in the 
   [SAS dictionary](http://mmcif.wwpdb.org/dictionaries/mmcif_sas.dic/Index/). 

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Not sure if it is single-scale (all atomistic)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks, 2DEM and SAXS)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              From the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github (DSS and EDC crosslinks in a different format than usual) 
                                                Refer to tables 2 & 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values are missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Tables 2 & 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      Github (multiple class average images as .hdf files)
                                                Refer to supplemetary table S3 for metadata, figure 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        Cross-correlation coefficients in Table S3, supplementary material
                                                Transformation matrix not available
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper (methods section and Figure 1)
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                4 states from the paper (1 major extended and 2 minor compact states)
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper (methods section and Figure 1)
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Minimal cluster information available in the paper
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Not available
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github & Manual
 - 23 2DEM class averages and 19 SAXS profiles were used. 18 DSS and 23 EDC intra-molecular crosslinks within Nup133 
   and 2 DSS and 2 EDC inter-molecular crosslinks between Nup133 and Nup84 were used. 

## [SEA complex](https://salilab.org/sea)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                From the paper (supplementary figure S3 and table S5)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              From the paper (methods section)
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github and supplementary table S4
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary table S8, figures S5 & S6 and Figure 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper (methods section and Figure 2)
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper (methods section and Figure 2)
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Cluster and precision information available in the paper (methods section)
                                                Supplementary figure S4
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Figures 2 & 3 from the paper (raw data is required)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github & Manual

## [TFIIH complex](https://salilab.org/tfiih)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.
 
 - Two separate modeling experiments are carried out, one for yeast TFIIH complex and another for the human counterpart. 

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                From the paper (methods section and supplementary figure S4)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual 
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and 3DEM map)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Supplementary table S5
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github and supplementary table S1
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values are missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary figure S5 and table S6
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      3DEM map in mrc format is available on Github (metadata?)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper (methods section and supplementary figure S3)
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper (methods section and supplementary figure S3)
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Supplementary figures S3, S4 and supplementary methods
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Figure 2 in the paper and supplementary figures S3 and S4 (raw data is required)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github & Manual

 - Note: Refer to details in the supplementary methods, figures and tables. 

#### What about elF3, GroEL, Integrin and Glycophorin modeling available on IMP website?

Commit message:

Clarify status of 'toy' systems.

deposition/imp/deposition.md, after:

# Deposition of IMP models

All published models should be listed on the
[IMP website](https://integrativemodeling.org/systems/). Some of these may
be suitable for deposition once issues (below) are resolved.

## [40S•eIF1•eIF3 Complex](https://salilab.org/40S-eIF1-eIF3)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.
 - The EM maps used in this study were not used as restraints, but only for
   assessment (see [figure S6](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4151992/figure/figs6/)).
 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Github (fasta sequences) and manual
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Supplementary figure S7
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks, 3DEM map used for validation only)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Supplementary methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values may come from IMP)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary material
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Publication, Figure 3 (used for validation only)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Figure S6, supplementary material
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Figure S6, supplementary material
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Supplementary material
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Github and supplementary figure S8
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [Exosome modeling](https://salilab.org/exosome)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Github (fasta sequences) & Manual
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Supplementary figure, S12 (may require raw data)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github 
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values from IMP)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary figure, S14 (may require raw data) and Github
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Methods section in the paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Github and methods section in the paper (clusters and cluster precisions)
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Figure 2 (i and j) in the paper (may require raw data)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [Nup84 Complex](https://salilab.org/nup84)

 - Need [localization density maps](https://github.com/integrativemodeling/nup84/issues/2).

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Github (fasta sequences) & Manual
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Supplementary figure S3 (may need raw data)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and 2DEM class averages, 3DEM map used for validation only)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Supplementary figure S3
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values from IMP)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary figure S4 (may need raw data)
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Negative stain 3DEM used for validation (Supplementary figure S8)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      Github
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        Cross-correlation coefficient available in the paper. 
                                                Transformation matrix not available
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Figure 4, methods section of paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Figure 4, methods section of paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Supplementary tables S4 & S5, Figure 4 in main paper
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Supplementary figures S6 & S7 (may need raw data)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [PDE6](https://salilab.org/pde6)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Methods section of paper (all atom models generated from coarse-grained models)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and 3DEM map)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Methods section of paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Tables 1, 2 & 3 in the paper (not available on Github)
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Tables 1, 2 & 3 (psi and sigma values missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   May be supplementary material Table 2 / not available
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Github (meta data??)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   Methods section of paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               Methods section of paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Not available
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Not available
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

## [PhoQ](https://salilab.org/phoq)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual 
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Methods section in paper
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Cysteine crosslinks)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Methods section and figure 1 in paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github (phoq/modeling/data/expcrosslink-full.dat, phoq/modeling/2Y20-MC-2-FULL-90-PERCENT-DATA-1/expcrosslink-90-percent.dat and others)
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values are missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Not available
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                From the paper
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Data-based clustering (raw data not available, refer to supplementary table S1)
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Github (what are .dx files?)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and manual

 - Refer to supplementary methods for data-based clustering and multi-state modeling.

## [Mediator](https://salilab.org/mediator/)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual and Github (fasta sequences)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                From the paper
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and EM map)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              From the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github (in a format different from the usual)
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values not available)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Crosslinks maps available on Github (raw data required)
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      Github and the paper (EM map has been segmented)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Github and the paper (clusters and cluster precisions)
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Github (in mrc and gmm formats)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github and Manual (citation missing on Github)
 - Note: The readme file on Github has a lot of information on the files/data available. EM map has been segmented. 

## [Nup133](https://salilab.org/nup133)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

 - SAXS data needs to be submitted to SASBDB. All metadata and SAS-related definitions are captured in the 
   [SAS dictionary](http://mmcif.wwpdb.org/dictionaries/mmcif_sas.dic/Index/). 

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                Not sure if it is single-scale (all atomistic)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks, 2DEM and SAXS)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              From the paper
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github (DSS and EDC crosslinks in a different format than usual) 
                                                Refer to tables 2 & 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values are missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Tables 2 & 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      Github (multiple class average images as .hdf files)
                                                Refer to supplemetary table S3 for metadata, figure 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        Cross-correlation coefficients in Table S3, supplementary material
                                                Transformation matrix not available
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper (methods section and Figure 1)
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                4 states from the paper (1 major extended and 2 minor compact states)
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper (methods section and Figure 1)
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Minimal cluster information available in the paper
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Not available
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github & Manual
 - 23 2DEM class averages and 19 SAXS profiles were used. 18 DSS and 23 EDC intra-molecular crosslinks within Nup133 
   and 2 DSS and 2 EDC inter-molecular crosslinks between Nup133 and Nup84 were used. 

## [SEA complex](https://salilab.org/sea)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                From the paper (supplementary figure S3 and table S5)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              From the paper (methods section)
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github and supplementary table S4
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary table S8, figures S5 & S6 and Figure 3 in the paper
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper (methods section and Figure 2)
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper (methods section and Figure 2)
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Cluster and precision information available in the paper (methods section)
                                                Supplementary figure S4
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Figures 2 & 3 from the paper (raw data is required)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github & Manual

## [TFIIH complex](https://salilab.org/tfiih)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.
 
 - Two separate modeling experiments are carried out, one for yeast TFIIH complex and another for the human counterpart. 

 - Category list
    - `entity`, `entity_poly`                   Manual
    - `entity_poly_seq`, `struct_asym`          Manual (no fasta sequence on Github)
    - `ihm_model_representation`                From the paper (methods section and supplementary figure S4)
    - `ihm_struct_assembly`                     Manual 
    - `ihm_dataset_list`                        Manual (Crosslinks and 3DEM map)
    - `ihm_dataset_related_db_reference`        Manual
    - `ihm_dataset_other`                       Manual
    - `ihm_starting_model_details`              Supplementary table S5
    - `ihm_starting_model_coord`                Github
    - `ihm_cross_link_list`                     Github and supplementary table S1
    - `ihm_cross_link_restraint`                Github (psi and sigma values are missing)
    - `ihm_cross_link_result`                   Supplementary figure S5 and table S6
    - `ihm_3dem_restraint`                      3DEM map in mrc format is available on Github (metadata?)
    - `ihm_2dem_restraint`                      n/a
    - `ihm_2dem_fitting`                        n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_protocol`                   From the paper (methods section and supplementary figure S3)
    - `ihm_multi_state_modeling`                n/a
    - `ihm_time_ordered_ensemble`               n/a
    - `ihm_modeling_post_process`               From the paper (methods section and supplementary figure S3)
    - `ihm_ensemble_info`                       Supplementary figures S3, S4 and supplementary methods
    - `ihm_model_list`                          Manual
    - `atom_site`                               IMP
    - `ihm_sphere_obj_site`                     IMP
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_site`                   n/a
    - `ihm_gaussian_obj_ensemble`               Figure 2 in the paper and supplementary figures S3 and S4 (raw data is required)
    - `author`, `software`, `citation`          Github & Manual

 - Note: Refer to details in the supplementary methods, figures and tables. 

The remaining systems on the IMP website (elF3, GroEL, Integrin and Glycophorin
modeling) are example or benchmark systems (in some cases a crystal structure
is already available) and aren't suitable for deposition.
