deposition/imp/README.md, before:

# Deposition of IMP models

All published models should be listed on the
[IMP website](https://integrativemodeling.org/systems/). Some of these may
be suitable for deposition once issues (below) are resolved.

## [40S•eIF1•eIF3 Complex](https://salilab.org/40S-eIF1-eIF3)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.

## [Exosome modeling](https://salilab.org/exosome)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.

## [Nup84 Complex](https://salilab.org/nup84)

 - Need [localization density maps](https://github.com/integrativemodeling/nup84/issues/2).

## [PDE6](https://salilab.org/pde6)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

## [PhoQ](https://salilab.org/phoq)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

## [Mediator](https://salilab.org/mediator/)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.

## [Nup133](https://salilab.org/nup133)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

## [SEA complex](https://salilab.org/sea)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

## [TFIIH complex](https://salilab.org/tfiih)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.

Commit message:

Note that EM map was used for assessment.

deposition/imp/README.md, after:

# Deposition of IMP models

All published models should be listed on the
[IMP website](https://integrativemodeling.org/systems/). Some of these may
be suitable for deposition once issues (below) are resolved.

## [40S•eIF1•eIF3 Complex](https://salilab.org/40S-eIF1-eIF3)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.
 - The EM maps used in this study were not used as restraints, but only for
   assessment (see [figure S6](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4151992/figure/figs6/)).

## [Exosome modeling](https://salilab.org/exosome)

 - No obvious barriers to deposition.

## [Nup84 Complex](https://salilab.org/nup84)

 - Need [localization density maps](https://github.com/integrativemodeling/nup84/issues/2).

## [PDE6](https://salilab.org/pde6)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

## [PhoQ](https://salilab.org/phoq)

 - PMI was not used, so more manual work will be necessary to extract all of
   the data needed for the mmCIF files.

## [Mediator](https://salilab.org/mediator/)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.

## [Nup133](https://salilab.org/nup133)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

## [SEA complex](https://salilab.org/sea)

 - Need to chase up the authors and get them to deposit scripts,
   outputs, etc.

## [TFIIH complex](https://salilab.org/tfiih)

 - An older version of PMI was used; needs work to clean up and adapt to
   modern PMI.
